# portfolio2_CCHS

## Physical activity and mental health in Canadian seniors: A cross-sectional study using the Canadian Community Health Survey

### SYNOPSIS
The Canadian Physical Activity Guidelines (CPAG) suggest that seniors participate 
in 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise each week; however, Canadian 
seniors have not been meeting these guidelines. Exercise improves physical and 
mental health, and maintenance of these throughout ageing is important. The 
impact of exercise participation on the mental health of Canadian seniors 
remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the association between 
exercise participation and mental health in Canadian seniors using data from 
the 2017-2018 Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS). Bivariate and logistic 
regression models were used to investigate the effect of exercise participation 
on perceived mental health. CCHS respondents over 60 years old (N=25,806) were 
included for analysis. Respondents physically active below CPAG were older, and 
less likely to be male, injured, or employed than respondents who met CPAG. The 
unadjusted odds of a respondent who met CPAG reporting Excellent-Good mental 
health were 1.38 (95% CI: 1.24, 1.54) times that of a respondent below CPAG. 
After adjusting for age, sex, race, injury, and employment, the odds ratio was 
1.56 (95% CI: 1.37, 1.78). Sensitivity analysis showed missingness did not 
impact effect measures meaningfully. Employment status was an effect modifier, 
and the adjusted odds ratios for employed and unemployed respondents were 
1.09 (95% CI: 0.85, 1.40) and 1.81 (95% CI: 1.55, 2.12), respectively. Findings 
suggest that exercise participation at CPAG levels by Canadians aged 60 years 
and above may improve perceived mental health.
